the purpose of this video is not to
complain that vegan restaurants in
general are garbage and not to complain
that the website happy cow is gone we're
gonna repress the urge to say exactly
those things in this video we recently
had a bit of a round-the-world trip from
China to Thailand from Thailand to
France and what struck us and a lot of
vegans feel this way or deal with this
on the one hand there are a lot of
really lousy really disappointing vegan
restaurants at all price levels there
are disappointing elite very very
expensive vegan restaurants and they
were disappointing you know cheap
low-end
vegan restaurants and juxtaposed with
this is the happy cow website which for
one thing forces you to give all vegan
restaurants a minimum rating of two
stars two stars out of five you can't
give them one star you can't get them a
zero stars so they're there forcing you
to inflate it and also it just seems
voluntarily the vast majority of people
contributing reviews there's kind of
review inflation you know I don't think
it's uh I don't think it's a conspiracy
of the restaurant owners to post
positive reviews no I don't think so
either
I think it's just that people are so
happy to see a vegan restaurant that
they have lower standards than what they
would infer right that's part of it and
the website itself has rhetoric
suggesting to you that you should
support the vegan movement by giving
positive reviews to these restaurants
and I got a notice like that when I gave
when I tried to give a zero star review
to a restaurant was like oh no well you
know you should give them encouragement
because they're doing the best they can
and they're supporting the future they
want is the vegan future the vegan
movement awful food we're just we're
just or just mediocre just disappointing
yeah because I mean again the
disappointment thing it's very much
relevant we're very much relative to the
price all right yeah I mean you know if
you're paying a certain level you know a
certain amount of time and money or
maybe way so disappointing compared to
the ratings that were provided and like
one of the reviews that were providing
right places that we went to we're good
and positive but then when we went there
the happy calm happy cow really makes it
worse in exactly that way that yeah you
get all excited try this new place so I
mean look real quick you know all of
Thailand is overrated Thailand is the
most overrated thing on the planet right
now especially for vegans then the vegan
demi-monde right like to start with
Thailand is overrated
full stop right in she'd never been to
Thailand before I've been a talented
million times I lived there I can still
speak enough Thai to get by I guess you
know you were last thing into Thai when
you got back to China yeah yeah yeah
that's the problems of study too many
languages so with speaking Chinese every
day that I want sound but anyway I got
back into speaking Thai if I had time to
brush up I could probably speak Thai
pretty well but anyway time to take a
course or hit the books but and when we
flew there and I mean I did take you to
at least a couple low-end vegan
restaurants the investors that are cheap
and buy Thai people for Thai people yeah
we went to one that was very traditional
Thai at least it would be right and I
don't think you enjoyed the food no but
it was a good experience you know yeah
it's culturally interesting but no I
don't think for you I don't think the
food was enjoyable I'm not kind of
narrated to the way no I mean I don't I
don't know if you go as far to say the
food was awful but you know you
tolerated the food yeah I mean you know
it was I'm you know this is also a
difference between eating at a
restaurant and eating at your cousin
Morty's place right you're nice to your
cousin more - he made this effort for
you you know if it but if it's a
restaurant it's a restaurant there were
standards and expectations that apply
you know name
now also in Thailand I think we went to
just one super high-end luxury vegan
restaurant yes right so we only did one
like that and again so the price was
very very high and the environments was
you know air-conditioned and gleaming
and so on and I mean I would say the
food was very disappointing yeah in that
case I can't say the food is bad I can't
say it's terrible or even you know but
again it's relative to a very different
standard right yeah at least I got to
try taro fries
that's interesting yeah yeah yeah yeah
but yeah and also everything was organic
there so that really drove up the price
oh that's her or they didn't need it's
an excuse to drive up the price right
because I mean with vegan food the
ingredients were talking about are all
really cheap lettuce it's just not that
expensive you know I mean look taro
potatoes are not that expensive when you
actually look at it I mean the the
single most expensive ingredient in that
meal was avocado avocado is a little bit
expensive in Southeast Asia you know but
like you know that's that's about it and
yeah we do basically a pile of greasy
mush on a fancy in a fancy bun oh it was
colored with charcoal to be black yeah
right so all right well my singer let's
let's let's do France
let's do France to France to me was on a
whole nother level first of all we're
where we were France there was basically
no such thing as a cheap restaurant like
the cheapest meal for two you're gonna
get as like 40 euros that's like a cheap
meal at a restaurant and then on happy
cow we had these there were all these
really positive glowing reviews and the
food was the food was bad enough in
these vegan restaurants that if my
cousin Morty made it I wouldn't even
probably I probably be like you know
like thanks for trying Morty you know
that's not suggesting not really that's
not really how you cook lentils Morty
yeah you know what I mean that's not
really what I'd call lasagna Morty being
like you try to be nice about it if your
cousin made it for you but it's not your
cousin making for you've taken the time
and the money to sit down and do this
and the food is you know tolerable but
but so does it and again I people feel
like the future the vegan movement is
gonna be going on the internet and
praising these restaurants and
pretending pretending there's something
not so look here's the other thing right
I think one of the myths we live with is
that if vegan food is good enough it's
going to entice meteors or it's going to
make the transition easier from eaters
obviously there is some truth to that
whether it's five percent true or ten
percent sure where 50 percent role I
mean it's it's never going to be
convincing you're never gonna have a an
ideological meet or sit down eat a vegan
burger and say this vegan burger is so
good
I'm gonna throw my leather couch in the
garbage that's it there's never gonna
happen right obviously there are bunch
of it but nevertheless it's true you're
easing the transition for meat-eaters
and it's a significant question how good
are the substitutes how readily
available the substitutes you know this
is a question but it seems like you're
you're really damaging the movement when
you do the opposite if you set up these
restaurants and they're expensive and
the food is lousy and then meat eaters
go to them meat eaters may look at the
review and happy cow or some other site
and they go to them and it's like I just
paid 40 euros for pizza with no cheese
and it's not even as good as getting
pizza with no cheese at a normal
meteorite on let alone pizza with cheese
or something right I just paid 40 euros
for this you know crap lentil dish or
whatever it is you you managed to get
which is not as good as even going to a
normal Middle Eastern place like if we
admit there's some truth to having good
substitutes available helping the cause
then presumably this is this is really
harming the console yeah I would I
would've thought there was any of the
actual the dedicated vegan restaurants
that we saw in France yeah well one
positive if I can make a positive out of
it is that going to the vegan
restaurants in Thailand in France bring
me really appreciate the vegan
restaurants of Detroit yeah and they're
really good in comparison it's right on
the internet it gets reviewed as one of
the ten best places to be vegan in the
States and it's having a lot of good
vegan restaurants
yeah those vegan restaurants I think
actually would help people feel more
confident about the transition into it I
don't feel that way about a lot of the
places that we went to in France yeah
yeah I mean it hurts mark remember the
grocery stores in France were pretty
good for for vegan options like vegan
substitutes yeah the actual grocery
stores is kind of the kind of a separate
story I feel German I feel Germany is
one of the best countries in the world
to be vegan because of the grocery
stores not because of the restaurants
because of what's available to growers
Jordan and now it's aware how it's
available but look in terms of what
inspired this video tonight we just got
takeout from a new vegan restaurant here
in China into Hong China and this
reminds me of a pattern I've seen in
Taiwan again again when I was living in
Taiwan the people who run this
restaurant are sincere or ideological
vegans at least the owners they had
believe me they had writing on the wall
literal
writing on the wall explaining veganism
as an etiology and they have no eggs and
no dairy it's not just vegetarian it's
really vegan but the question you ask
yourself is well hey these people their
hearts are in the right place they're
supporting the movement but are they
really restaurant people or are they
really food people you know I mean like
you I when were going to places in
Taiwan and typically it would be a
middle-aged woman who had kids and then
it couldn't get back into the workforce
or just decided to retire you know woman
in her 50s or something kids have
already gone to college and she decides
to set up a vegan restaurant because she
believes in veganism or she believes in
Buddhism or both either maybe your
religious aspects you know in here in
Asia there's so veganism and or Buddhism
right but she she's someone with no
background no experience running
restaurants and no real interest in old
fashioned cuisine is them so the results
are very often mediocre too terrible you
know they're they're disappointing we
can leave it at that
right so it's it's a real bind because
you and I I mean like I think every
serious vegan has thought about should I
be in food services somewhere should I
try to open a restaurant or a bakery or
something but I'm self-critical enough
to know if I'm gonna run a bakery I got
to go to baking college even if it's
just for six months or something you
know I've got to take some courses you
know I know I don't bring to this
already a skill set to make that
successful or just make it adequate I'd
forget successful adequate you know what
I mean it's tough yeah for some reason I
still feel more confident that we could
make yeah I do feel confident that we
would make better food than many of the
vegan restaurants we actually went to on
this trip yeah well which was across
such a strange cultural diversity of
places here in Yan'an and in Thailand
and in France and so on yeah okay so I
mean look and what is what is the future
of the vegan movement and
you know it's hard I think a lot of
cities I think what I'd like to see
happen is people putting together
charities to make vegan food more
convenient at subway stations whether
that's at something like a hamburger
stand hot dogs vegan ham bursts and I
was if he cannot understand or kiosk or
whatever it is but I mean even if you
have a vegan corner store with vegan
potato chips and vegan chocolate bars
like I know that I'm it's it's junk food
in the truest sense of the word but you
know at an airport or at a subway
station or something I mean you know I
almost feel like we need to have a drive
for that kind of food as terrible as it
may be and then on the other hand I mean
a small number of people are trying to
make a name for themselves or make a
name for the movement or just live a
lifestyle a lot of its lifestyle driven
we had a long conversation with this
woman in France who opened a vegan
restaurant yeah she was really
passionate about saying like if this is
for the animals like this is something
that I've been wanting to do where she
just opened it up you know less than two
years ago and she's itching to we oh
yeah she's so that's where do you
remember that I mean that's true I I
also remember her saying that they see
my memory that is totally muted because
she also described her reasons for
running that restaurant being she wanted
to go to the beach every day she wanted
have a cool place to hang out you know I
mean look there were these lifestyle
elements where it was like well are you
running a restaurant or you on vacation
yeah you know that that was what I was
hearing but you are right she also did
say that stuff about it being motivated
by and for the animals yeah yeah yeah so
yeah I mean you know you have mixed
motives you have a kind of conflict of
interest within why are these people
doing this yeah and I guess I mean I
guess the fundamental difference between
the meat based restaurants and the vegan
restaurants is that with most meat based
restaurants the customer comes first
they're making the food people want to
eat they're making food to please the
customers and with vegan restaurants
there's this list of other things that
come before the customer whether that's
the kind of ideological purpose or these
lifestyle concerns or what have you
yeah that's a wrap vegan restaurants are
pigeon at the cow is garbage and
only making it worse